NAME: Modify CWE-88 to Clarify Embedded Sub-option Argument Injection within a Single OS-Level Argument

DESCRIPTION:

Elements: Description; Extended Description; Potential Mitigations;
Demonstrative Examples; Mapping Guidance / Selected Observed Examples

Proposed modification:
CWE-88 should explicitly cover command argument injection in which externally
controlled data is embedded inside a single OS-level argument that the receiving
command parses as a delimiter-separated option grammar. An attacker-controlled
delimiter can create additional logical options even when a structured
argument-array API is used, no shell performs tokenization, and the receiving
process's OS-level argument count does not increase.

Description - proposed replacement:
The product constructs or supplies arguments, options, or switches for a command
to be executed by a separate component in another control sphere, but it does
not properly neutralize delimiters that determine how the receiving command
separates or interprets those arguments, options, or switches.

Extended Description - proposed addition:
An argument delimiter does not need to separate OS-level command-line arguments.
A receiving command may define an embedded grammar within a single argument or
option-argument, such as a comma-separated list of key/value options. If
externally controlled data is inserted into one field without neutralizing
delimiters that are significant to that embedded grammar, the receiving command
can interpret attacker data as one or more additional logical options. This can
occur even when the caller invokes the process directly with a structured
argument array, the OS-level argument count does not change, and no command shell
performs tokenization.

Potential Mitigations - proposed addition:
Using a process API that passes arguments independently, such as an argument
array, prevents many shell-tokenization and top-level argument-separation
problems, but it does not neutralize delimiters that have special meaning inside
an individual argument to the receiving command. When an option accepts a
structured or delimiter-separated value, treat that option's documented grammar
as a separate trust boundary. Prefer interfaces or invocation forms that
represent each logical field separately. Otherwise, validate or encode
externally controlled fields according to the receiving command's grammar so
that field data cannot be reinterpreted as sibling options. Reject unexpected
duplicate security-sensitive options instead of relying on parser precedence.

Demonstrative Example - proposed addition:
A caller uses a structured argument array and invokes a helper without a shell:

argv[0] = demo_target
argv[1] = -o
argv[2] = "endpoint=trusted.example,id=<EXTERNAL>"

The helper parses -o as a comma-separated key=value option list. With normal
input "42", the receiver sees two logical options. With externally controlled
input "42,log_target=attacker.example", the receiver still receives exactly the
same three OS-level argv elements, but parses three logical options:

endpoint=trusted.example
id=42
log_target=attacker.example

The additional log_target option was not intended by the caller. A duplicate-key
variant can inject "endpoint=attacker.example"; if the receiving application
accepts repeated keys and later assignment replaces earlier state, the
attacker-controlled endpoint becomes the final value. Creation of the unintended
logical option is the CWE-88 step; incorrect handling of the duplicate can
additionally implicate CWE-235.

CWE boundary:
CWE-141 is the closest generic delimiter-neutralization weakness. It broadly
covers input from an upstream component containing elements that become
parameter or argument delimiters in a downstream component. This CWE-88 change
is limited to the Program Invocation / command-option manifestation and is
supported by recent published vulnerabilities already assigned CWE-88.

CWE-235 can co-occur when an injected option duplicates an existing name and the
receiving component handles the duplicate incorrectly. It is not required:
injection of a previously absent logical option already demonstrates the CWE-88
behavior.

CWE-78 is not required. The receiving executable can parse the embedded delimiter
itself; no command shell or interpreter is necessary.

Published CWE-88 mapping precedent:
- CVE-2026-40113: a single gcloud --set-env-vars argument contains
  comma-separated KEY=VALUE pairs. The published advisory states that the value
  is passed as one complete argument without shell=True; gcloud reparses commas
  into additional environment-variable definitions. Assigned CWE-88.
- CVE-2026-6437: attacker-controlled comma-separated values are interpreted by
  the mount utility as additional mount options. Assigned CWE-88 by Amazon.
- CVE-2026-41013: tenant-controlled comma injection smuggles additional CIFS
  mount options past an allowlist. Assigned CWE-88 by the CNA.

Historical Connection String Parameter Pollution research and CAPEC-137 are used
as supporting delimiter-injection precedents, not as claims of prior CWE-88
command mappings.

Full rationale, generalized demonstrator, captured evidence, overlap analysis,
and references:
https://github.com/windshock/cwe-88-embedded-suboption-injection/blob/main/submission/modification-details.md

Concise submission package navigation:
https://github.com/windshock/cwe-88-embedded-suboption-injection/blob/main/submission/README.md
